---
layout: post
title:  "Test"
date:   2022-12-22 16:17:22 -0800
categories: jekyll update
---

# Test

This is a test.

# Chapter 28

Sarah and Andy were walking down a carpeted hallway strung with glass chandeliers and lined with doorways interspersed with decorative tables holding flower arrangements and backed with large mirrors. It was a dazzling, even ostentatious display of wealth and comfort.

"This place makes me very nervous," Sarah said.

"You're just worried because we pass through the wormhole tomorrow."

Sarah sighed. The two of them turned left and passed through a large doorway into an elaborate dining room. A large rectangle wooden table with rounded corners stood in the middle of the room. Golden framed round mirrors hung on the wall, each with clear class chandeliers positioned just beneath, the lights from the lamps partially reflected in the mirrors, and casting elaborate shadows across the dark purple rug that covered the floor.

"You're damn straight I'm nervous about it," Sarah said. "And you'll be nervous too, after you've done it once. It sounds romantic, but it's not."
Andy walked up to one of the four place settings at the dinner table. A white lace placemat lay on the dark red stained bare wooden table. Cut glass goblets full of water stood before each place, and two wine glasses, now empty and upside down.

Sarah took the seat opposite Andy. Andrew King was already present, and sitting at the head of the table. General Anson sat at the end of the table.

"You have nothing to fear, Miss Ransom," General Anson said. "I assure you that it is safe to travel with us. This is the safest and best system for interplanetary travel that has ever been devised."

"And are you coming with us?" Sarah asked.
There was a brief pause, then General Anson shook his big bald head. His face was pale, and round, and he had slight double chin. "I'm sorry my dear, but I can't come with you. I wish I could, as this is an important matter, but I'm needed her right now."

"Also," Sarah said, "it's not safe to travel this way too often, is it General Anson?"

"Oh come off it, Sarah," Andy said. "Let's be civil, all right."

"No, no, it's quite all right," General Anson said. "Miss Ransom is entirely correct. No one should travel through a wormhole more than once a year. The journey can be hard on one. It's safe, but difficult."

"It's the rush of progress," Andrew King said. "The first trips to Duwamish took hundreds of years to complete. People disappeared into space, and it was generations until anyone knew whether the project was successful. It was a wrenching process. Families were torn apart, resentments festered. Then suddenly Halston comes forward, claiming that he can bend space, and jump between distant points in a matter of hours. The only catch is the expense."

"Yes," General Anson said. "The expense was vast, and most people refused to be involved. But those who did have profited beyond anyone's imagination. It costs a fortune to hold a wormhole open, but while it is open, resources can pass through it effortless, at a huge rate, and at no danger to anyone's health. In fact, we never really intended Einstein-Rosen Bridges to be used for human travel. We fought the idea – for various reasons. It's still considered a radical concept. In fact, Miss Ransom, your family is one of the very few that have ever traveled that way. The military, yes, but very few civilians were willing to try."

"I come from an unusual family, General Anson."

"Yes, and a wealthy one. You're mother is one of the most successful artists of our day. I have several of her paintings myself."
Sarah looked at the older man, who was in the process of helping himself from a tray passed by a servant dressed in white. "Oh, I didn't know you were interested art," she said.
The general shook his head. "I'm afraid to say I'm something neophyte. I don't really know much about the subject. My collection is an investment, that's all. I asked for advice, and someone recommended your mother's work. I bought the first one 15 years ago. It's worth a lot more now than we I bought it."
Sarah nodded. "That showed foresight. Her success has really only come in the last ten years. I can remember what it was like before her work started selling. We lived off Dad's salary. He was a professor, you know. We did not want, but our means were modest."

"Yes, your father was a talented man. And so is your mother. I can't claim to understand much about art, but I've always liked her work. I'm not just flattering you. I get real pleasure from her paintings, which is not true of everything I collect."

"Thank you, general."
The general took a bite of food from his plate, put down his fork, took a sip of wine. He spoke again, interrupting a silence which had fallen over the table. "Still, it surprised me when she travelled to Duwamish. It never occurred to us that artists, or wealthy people looking for a change of pace, would go there."

"You had other plans for Duwamish," Sarah said.
General Anson chuckled. He was dressed in one of his military uniforms, which seemed to Sarah to be perhaps a bit too well tailored, too fashionable. "You are very discreet. I like that. But yes, we had other plans for Duwamish. Andrew King and I both did. We've just been talking about how expensive space travel can be. Life in the in this century is very expensive. It's made possible by the generation of capital and Duwamish, well Duwamish is one of the potentially wealthiest planets in the galaxy."

"The Hallah, General Anson, don't think there is anything 'potential' about the wealth of Duwamish. They think it is valuable right now, just the way it is."
General Anson smiled, wiped his wet lips with his large, white linen napkin. "The Hallah, my dear, are parasites. It took the wealth of a civilization to send them to Duwamish. They have lived here for hundreds of years in one of the plushest, richest planets in the galaxy, with no natural enemies, no major expenses. Earth's government, the wealth of earth's corporations put the Hallah on their planet, and now they think they owe us nothing."

"They think they are accomplishing the goal they were sent to accomplish. They were sent by a planet in crisis, a planet on the verge of destruction, to go find a better way to live. That is exactly what they have done."

"Oh, what nonsense! There is no proof they had any such mission."

"They have records, documents…."

"Oh for God's sake, they could be forgeries. If they were true, why is there no record of them on earth?"

"There is little record of anything that happened that long ago on earth," Sarah said. "It was a time of war, of chaos. The planet nearly destroyed itself." 

"That's what the Hallah always claim, and the Bramens too. War, they say, and chaos. While they were building a so called 'paradise' on Duwamish. For God's sake, the Hallah live in hovels. It's stone knives and bear skins. They have only the most primitive technology, while look what happened on earth. They always denigrate earth, but look what we've accomplished. Wormholes, space travel, unbelievable wealth."

"And now your advanced civilization is coming to Duwamish. The only catch is that you want to destroy the people who live there so that you can get rich."

"Oh for God's sake, Sarah!" Andy shouted. "Will you shut up! You should hear yourself. You are incredibly impolite."

"I'm supposed to be polite while Duwamish is under attack? This isn't a game, Andy. People are dying."

"All right," Andrew King said. "That is enough for tonight. General Anson, I apologize for this whole situation. I never thought Andy would come to the station. I just didn't foresee it, and especially I didn't foresee Sarah Ransom coming with him."

"There is no need, to apologize. These are difficult times. 'Expect the unexpected!' That's what they tell us, and that is what I've learned to do. Besides, the presence of Andy and Sarah is not without benefit. They will help keep your mind focused on your task. The sooner you complete it, the sooner you can get your son back safely to Duwamish."

"God damn you!" Andrew King said.

"Now don't get angry at me. I'm going to make you, and your son, very wealthy people. I don't think you understand yet just how wealthy you will be. We have wormholes leading all over the galaxy. There is no limit to the demands for the resources on Duwamish, and right now, you control them. Our job is to keep you in control of them. That is best for everyone. Just stay focused on your task, and everything will turn out for the best. You will see."

After dinner, Sarah and Andy walked back down the long, plush hallway toward their respective bedrooms. "What the hell is going on?" Sarah asked.
Andy shook his head. "I have no idea."

"Well," Sarah said. "We both have at least some kind of idea. The question is probably more what you think of it."

"Goddamn it, don't judge me that way. I'm not a simpleton."

"No, but your only human. And you are being tempted."
Andy stopped walking, and took Sarah's hands. "Ok, I'm tempted. But I haven't given in. And I don't want to go it alone, whether I'm tempted or not, I want you with me."

"No, Andy. Not now. This is not the…."

"Oh damn it, Sarah, listen to me, will you."

"I can hear you, Andy."

"I want you, don't you understand. I've always wanted you."

"This is not the right time, Andy. It's too confusing."

"That wasn't how you talked two months ago."

"That was two months ago. I'm a different person now."

"Why, why are you so different?"

"I've seen things, Andy. I've seen too much."

"And what about me? You think I haven't been through anything?"

"That's the point. We've both been through too much."

"Oh damn you."

"Don't be mad at me, Andy. We need to stick together through this. It's the only way."

"Well, that's all I'm asking for."

"Yes, but not the way you mean it. Not that way. Not now."

"You mean we do it your way."

"Believe me, Andy, this is not what I wanted. I don't want to be here."
Andy stood still in the big hallway beneath the glowing chandeliers. A lush flower arrangement glowed with pinks, blues and yellows on the table before a big mirror which reflected his and Sarah's image. "I know you don't want to be here," he said at last.

"Thank you Andy. Thank you for being patient."
They embraced, and then walked off to their separate rooms.

Sarah woke the next day with a feeling of dread. Lying on the huge bed in her lavish room, she wanted to pull the covers down over her head and go back to sleep. Everything was wrong. Her father was gone, she was separated from her mother, not only was she not in college, but her college had been destroyed. 
Rolling over on her back she pushed a button and curtains parted giving her view through a huge window, an entire wall, that looked out on the blackness of space. She was in deep space and out the window all she could see was blackness and millions of distant stars. It was impossible to tell if the ship was moving. If they had already arrived at the worm hole field, then it was possible that they were stopped, simply waiting to take their turn. Or they could still be moving through space at a hundred thousand kilometers per hour. There was no way to know.
Staring out into space, Sarah felt as lonely as she had ever been in her life. As she had so often in the last weeks, she thought back to her time with Jason in the mountains. She now regretted her constant carping during that period. Why had she been so uncomfortable, so contrary? She felt that if she could only talk to Jason, only ask him a few questions, then she might learn how better to cope with her situation. But that was not possible. 
On the wall of the room was a huge abstract painting in pastels. Her mother would have hated the painting. It was the kind of corporate art that she had always railed against. When she was younger, Sarah had pretended to like it, just to annoy her mother, but it was annoying to know that she secretly agreed with her mother, and worse, that her mother wasn't fooled by the ruse. "You don't like it either, Sarah, why do you talk that way?"
Sarah rolled over and pulled the covers up over her head. She would go through the wormhole today. Her body would be drugged, then frozen, then placed in a capsule and shoved out into space, where it would be guided through a hole in space, popping out on the other end of a curved fold in time. The thought sickened her.

She had breakfast with Andy and his father in a well lit informal room with round tables and uncomfortable plastic chairs. The food was delicious but Sarah was not comfortable. The walls were filled with changing pictures of natural scenes from Duwamish. An entire wall would fill with an animated view of a forest, or of a rushing stream. The video was vivid, the colors true, the scenes beautiful, but Sarah didn't like them. She wanted to be on Duwamish, she didn't want to see pictures of it.
Andy was obviously excited about the journey on which he was about to embark. "I only wish we could be awake to experience it," he said.
His father shook his head, smiled. "You know that won't work."

"I've heard the stories of course," Andy said. "People go mad, nervous systems are shattered, and yes, I know, worse: brain dysfunction, blindness. But nobody really knows why those things happen, or why it doesn't happen to everyone."

"Do you think you would be the exception?" his father asked.

"I'd like to think not, but it is a big chance to take."

"Yes it is," Andrew King responded.

Like everything on the ST507 Space Voyager, the cryogenic room was plush and elaborate. Functionally, it was a cross between a science lab and a hospital, but in appearance it looked like a resort. There was a main lobby with a desk occupied by an attractive blonde woman in her early thirties. Along the edges of the room were a series of doors leading into "personal suites" with a lounge chairs, dressers, beds, and elaborately decorated walls with paintings. Andy and Andrew King were already in their rooms.
Sarah poked in her head, saying hello. "I'm guess I'm the last one," she said to Andrew King.

"Yes, they called us early. It takes nearly an hour to go through registration. They are hooking us up to the machines now. As if on cue, a man in a white lab coat walked into the room, and began fussing with a computer panel next to Andrew's bed.
Sarah waved goodbye and poked her head into the next room, which had her name on it. Her room was like the others, but perhaps even a bit fancier. There was even a fireplace with real wood burning in it. This was the ultimate luxury, something that only the very wealthiest could afford. Wood was so expensive that burning it for heating or aesthetic purposes was a bit like using paper money to cook a meal.
Sarah sat down at the desk opposite the well groomed, efficient looking blonde woman. She was dressed in a real silk blouse and wore a long, tightly fitting black skirt. Her hair was carefully coifed and lit with artificial highlights, though she was too young to need hair dye. Her face had the sheen of a woman who applied heavy makeup. "Hello," she said cheerfully. "My names Julia, and I'm here to take you through the registration process, make sure your medical data is recorded properly, and answer any questions you might have."

"Hi," Sarah said. "I'm Sarah Ransom."

"Of course," Julia answered. "I know your mother's work. It's an honor to know you."
Sarah wanted to detect something false about the woman's demeanor, but it was impossible. She was too pretty, too nice and too intelligent to dislike. The best Sarah could do was think how completely big corporations were able to sweep the best schools, vacuuming up all the best talent. But that was hardly a crime, and it would have been unusual only if they hadn't pursued such a policy.

"We have several forms you will need to fill out. Are you prepared to give us the information we need?" Julia asked.

"Oh course," Sarah said. She had been through this process before, and had already reconciled herself to giving a private company a good deal of personal information. It irked her to do so, but she knew that there was very little about her life that was not already stored in some database somewhere.

"And we will need to know your genes and blood type. We can do that by drawing some blood, or just using a mouth swab. Do you have preference?"

"The swab, of course."
The woman nodded, and without looking up handed Sarah a clear sealed plastic container with a small swab with a pink foam tip in it. Sarah quickly popped open the package, pulled out the swab, ran it over her gums, and without being told dropped it into a slot at the front of the desk.
Julia looked up and raised her eyebrows.
Sarah hesitated, worried that she had made a mistake. "That was the right place to put it, wasn't it?"
The woman nodded. "Exactly right. It's just that not everyone knows the drill."

"We moved to Duwamish just three years ago. I must have gone through a process like this a dozen times before we left. I thought they would never stop testing me."
Julia smiled. It was like watching a work of art move. Every plane in her face fell into a charming and symmetric pattern, her teeth were white and perfectly formed, and her eyes sparkled. Despite herself, Sarah felt a flush of envy. She wanted to feel distain for all this professionalism and pulchritude, but it was impossible. The woman was simply too charming.
Julia was focused on a computer window now, which appeared in one of the open spaces on her desk. Moving quickly, she performed a series of flicking gestures with her hands as she skimmed through the results from Sarah's genetic test. Occasionally she would murmur something non-committal such as "oh yes," or "just so." The process went on for several minutes.

"Is everything okay?"

"Yes, yes. Everything's is quite in order," she said, but she now her brow was furrowed, and she scanned back and forth through graphs and screens full of data, obviously returned to two or three screens multiple times.

"What is it?" Sarah said. "Obviously something's caught your attention."

"Well, it's nothing."

"Please," Sarah said. "I'm not a fool. Tell me what you see. I'm going to wonder about it, you know."

"Did someone ever do work on your genes?"

"No, nothing beyond the ordinary things at conception. Whatever it is they do to make sure we don't carry genes for cancer, diabetes, anything that might incline us toward obesity." Sarah hesitated. "Why? What is it you see?" Sarah stood, and walked around the desk. She peered down at the data, seeing a series of brightly colored animated graphs and scrolling rows of data.
Suddenly she was aware of Andy standing next to her. He moved in close, almost pushing her aside.

"I thought they were hooking you up to the machines," Sarah said to him.

"Oh, there is some kind of glitch. The computer guys are updating one of the programs. It seems Dad and I both have a weird kind of genetic structure. Most of us who have lived on Duwamish along time do.  We didn't go through the same genetic mapping that you folks back on earth did."

"Is there anything wrong?"

"No, of course not. We're perfectly normal, it's just that we don't have all the standard genes. They have pull data from repositories down on Duwamish. They have all the sequences they need, they've just never loaded them up here on this ST507. Everything's so new up here, they don't have old data like this, even in the deep stores."

"Oh," Sarah said. "We'll I hope it doesn't take too long."

"It won't. Now tell me what's going on. I could see the two of you talking about something out here."

"I don't know what it is," Sarah said. "Julia thinks there is something wrong with one of my gene patterns. Something screwy in the helix, as they say," she said, trying to make light of it.
Andy leaned her forward, squinting a bit as he stared at the data. Julia made a gesture, changing the output. "Hey!" Andy said. "Hold on a second. Let's go back to that 3D DNA graph. The one about the nucleotides on bar 57."
Julia looked up, as if taking in Andy for the first time. To Sarah she suddenly looked quite different, either because she was not expecting Andy to understand the science, or because she was not entirely immune to his good looks.
Andy put his hands on the computer, rotating the graph, zooming in on portion of the complex 3D model which gave a visual representation of the numeric data which represented Sarah's genetic structure. "That's weird looking," he said.

"I'm going to have to ask you to take your hands off the desk," Julia said.

"Yea, I would," Andy said, "but I'm betting you've never seen anything like that before either. Not outside of a text book."
Julia started to speak, then changed her mind. "No, I haven't," she said at last.

"What is it?" Sarah asked.

"I'm not sure," Julia said, "but I'm sure it's…."

"It's like someone has been in trying to patch up your genes," Andy said. "It's very crude though."
Julia sighed, shook her head. "Who was it who handled your flight to Duwamish. What company?"

"Helio," Sarah said. Despite herself, there was a catch in her voice.

"Oh," Julia said, her voice and expression neutral.

"You obviously don't think much of them," Sarah said.

"Here at Neustar we've tried to buy them, several times."

"So it's a rivalry." Sarah said.

"No," Andy interjected. "Not a rivalry. Neustar thinks Helio is giving the business a bad name. There is a movement to try to clean up the business of interstellar travel."

"This business used to be like the 'wild west'" Julia said. "If you'll forgive the expression. A bunch of cowboys figured out how to keep a wormhole static without needing half a galaxy worth of energy. Frankly, no one thought they could do it. I'm sure you've heard about, how the first travelers made time jumps, no one believing their reports. Then folks making fortunes overnight. Neustar had its origins in that time also. But we've changed. Helio is different."

"So," Sarah said. "Are you going to tell me what's wrong?"

"I'm not really an expert," Andy said. "But it might have nothing to do with the wormholes. It might just be the cryogenics. At any rate, it looks to me like some of your genes got scrambled. It's not really that unusual. They are tools for fixing this kind of problem. But it looks like something went wrong."

"How can you tell," Sarah said.

"Those graphs. They should have a very regular shape. But here you can see holes in the spheres."

"Well, okay, I can see the holes. What does it mean?

"The graphs don't really represent anything in the real world. It's just a way of visualizing data. A way of checking to see that everything is normal. If there is an abnormality, then we end up with these funny looking holes, or indentations. I think its something in the purine bases, adenine, guanine. I don't know. It's genetics, Sarah. This is a black art."

"I'll agree with that, but how do you know so much about it?"

"Look, I'm a scientist. I've been reading about this stuff since I was 12, 13 years old. There were scifi books about this kind of thing. I don't know what got me started. I've been interested in it since I was child. Dad always encouraged it, I guess. He thinks this kind of background would be useful in the business. He's probably right. Or may I'm just interested in science. You would know to if you hadn't been raised by your crazy mother and all her painting."

"I'm not a painter," Sarah said. "I was studying to be an anthropologist, like my father. That's science too."

"Sort of," Andy said, and then he looked down, a guilty expression on his face. At the mention of Sarah's father, the conversation came to halt.
Julia was the first one to break the silence. "I think we can fix this," she said. "Neustar has been working on algorithms to repair this kind of damage. We have … um … agreements with Helio that allows us to trade information with them. We can probably get the data we need from them to recreate the original genetic structure. It will cost money though."

"Well, that's a problem." Sarah said.

"No its not," Andy stated. "Just spend whatever you need to spend. The King Corporation will pay for it. Where will it be done?"

"Not here. We can just make it part of the regular reprocessing steps on the other side – when you get to Porterland."
Andy nodded. "Okay, let's do it."

"Hey," Sarah said, "don't I get a say in this?"

"Sure," Andy said, and beamed his handsome, good natured smile. "You get to say yes."

"Are you going to explain to me exactly what's wrong?"
Andy shrugged. "It's hard to say, but if I had to guess…."

"Let's not guess," Julia said. "This is science, not a parlor game."

"That's easy for you to say," Sarah said. "But I want to know what is wrong."

"It's better if we don't guess," Julia said.

"Andy, tell me what you are thinking."
He shrugged. "I really don't know. I think these genes are linked to cognitive abilities. Something deep down in the brain, though. Maybe the hippocampus, the medulla."

"Oh come on," Julia said. "That's all speculation."

"Well, it probably has something to do with cognitive connections. Synapses, neurotransmitters, receptors."

"Oh for God's sake," Julia said. "You can't prove any of this."

"And you're not exactly making me feel better," Sarah said.

"No, I wouldn't think you'd find that kind of talk very reassuring," Julia added. "Anyway, it's all speculative nonsense. The point is that we can help. You'll give us permission to repair it."
Sarah arched her eyebrows, looked up at Andy. He nodded in reply. "Yes, it's the best thing."

"Okay then," Julia said. "That settles it. And you've made the right decision. Now let's just finish up this datawork and get you all on your way."

An hour later Sarah lay on the big soft bed in her room of the 'transportation suite.' She was dressed in a special white suite made of some synthetic material. It felt very thin and very slick against her skin. When she moved she could feel its cool, synthetic surface against her flesh. It had a disturbing, sensual feel that made her think of being in bed with Andy. It was thought she did not want to entertain. Instead she found her mind drifting back to the discussion about her genes. She didn't trust the science behind wormholes and cryogenics. She was letting scientist get inside her, deep down inside her, changing the way she was made. She thought about her father and his anthropological studies. The ancient Indians lived only 35 or 40 years, and they were stuck with whatever genes they happened to inherit. There was disease waiting for them like a hunters trap, a soup of pathogens, infectious biological agents waiting to way lay them. Yet their biology had emerged over billions of years, nature itself creating a vast web of life built on principles that could not, would not fail. Now science had undermined those principles, man had taken charge of his own genetic evolution, and disaster on a much vaster, much more complex scale was possible. 
Sarah closed her eyes and stared into the red darkness behind her eyelids. They must be pumping drugs into me already, she thought. She felt disconnected from her own mind. It was a bit like being a child again, watching the flashes of white, red and gray behind her eyelids, as if staring off into another world. How she hated this process! She wanted to be back on Duwamish, back with Jason in the meditation hall, far away from wormholes and DNA theory, far away from thoughts of the double helix in her own cells that was no longer quite as God had intended, but remade in the fashion of Helio and Neustar, remade by scientists barely in their twenties who knew everything about math and nothing about life. 
Sarah remembered going to visit Pueblo ruins in New Mexico with her father when she was a child. Those old structures. Was any of it still original? Her father didn't think so, yet still the buildings were evocative. An Indian woman, her face hot from the Pueblo ovens, hornos they were called, her fingers covered with damp corn meal as she prepared bread for the tribe…. Prepared bread…. Sarah fought to stay conscious, but they were taking her down now, getting her ready for her trip to Porterland.
