---
layout: post
title:  "Network Connections"
date:   2023-04-20 14:00:00 -0800
categories: tech
---

- Ctrl-X, Select **Computer management**
- Shared Folders/Shares.
- Select it and choose **properties**
- In **Computer Management" you can create users.
- Here you can also create and update usernames and passwords
- pick a very simple username. Proabably all lower case and no spaces.

If you search for **services** you can find the **credential manager**. But forget it. The key thing here is to create a local user and stick with that user. Don't try to use the Microsoft login name and your Microsoft account. It is a rats nest, perhaps because of the identity login system. See the [section](#localuserpasswd) on updating the local user's password.

See also **Settings | Accounts | Account Setting | Other Users**. You can create users there but it is not a good place to manage them.

## SSH

- sudo apt update
- sudo apt upgrade -y
- ip addr
- **sudo apt install zip unzip ssh cifs-utils dos2unix mc**
- Perhaps **sudo apt install mc --fix missing**
- set up **/etc/fstab** as shown below
- then **sudo mount -a**

``` bash
ubuntu@us25:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
# / was on /dev/sda2 during curtin installation
/dev/disk/by-uuid/eot53534-fc59-4c68-aa6d-d9ar277q211b / ext4 defaults 0 1
/swap.img none swap sw 0 0
//MyServer/MyShare /home/ubuntu/Shared cifs username=<USERNAME>,password=<PASSWORD>,iocharset=utf8 0 0
```

This assumes I have a share called **MyShare** on a server called **MyServer**. See the section above on computer management.

## <a name="localuserpasswd">Updating the Local User's Password</a>

After a time your Windows local account password will expire. You will need to change it. Try to Log into your local account. You will be prompted to update your password. You can reuse your current password.

## SSH

- on the machine you want to access:
  - chmod 600 id_rsa
  - cat id_rsa > ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
  - eval \`ssh-agent -s\`
  - ssh-add ~/.ssh/ida_rsa
- On the machine that will access the remote server:
  - **ssh -i id_rsa carol@192.168.22.102**
  - But use you username and ip address.
